# Machine Learning with MATLAB&reg; and Amazon SageMaker&reg; Demo

This repository demonstrates an approach to using [Amazon SageMaker](https://aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/)'s support for bring-your-own-algorithms and frameworks to train and deploy MATLAB machine learning models.

## Prerequistes
* An Amazon Web Services™ (AWS) account.
* A Linux&reg; computer with 
  * MATLAB R2023a with 
    * Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox
    * MATLAB Compiler
    * MATLAB Compiler SDK
  * make 
  * Docker&reg; 
  * Python&reg; 3 with [pip](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/key_projects/#pip) and [venv](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/key_projects/#venv)

This repository includes code to build a Docker container that uses MATLAB batch token licensing. Batch token licensing is currently only available as part of a pilot program. For more information about batch token eligibility, contact the MathWorks cloud team at cloud@mathworks.com.

## Costs
You are responsible for the cost of the AWS services used.

## What is in this repo?
### Code
* `matlab` - MATLAB code that provides `sagemaker.MATLABEstimator()` and other classes. It uses Amazon SageMaker Python SDK to call Amazon SageMaker APIs. For training a model this  requires building the training image from the `docker` folder.  To deploy a model this uses MATLAB Compiler SDK's [`compiler.package.microserviceDockerImage`](https://www.mathworks.com/help/compiler_sdk/mps_dev_test/compiler.package.microservicedockerimage.html) functionality.
* `docker` - a `Dockerfile` that builds a container suitable for using in a SageMaker training job to train a MATLAB model. This image contains MATLAB code that glues the Amazon SageMaker training environment to the user supplied MATLAB code for training models.

### Examples
*  `TrainAndDeployClassificationTree` - shows using MATLAB in a Amazon SageMaker training job to train a decision tree (using `fitctree`) on the Fisher iris data, deploying that model to a Amazon SageMaker endpoint, and then requesting a prediction from that endpoint.
* `DeployExistingModel.mlx` - shows deploying a pretrained MATLAB model to Amazon SageMaker endpoint, and then requesting a prediction from that endpoint.

## Getting Started

* [Sign in to your AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)

If you are using a AWS `profile` other than `default` add it to `.env` file in root of repo
````shell
echo AWS_PROFILE=myprofile > .env
````

Put your MATLAB batch licensing token in `training.env` 

## Training a Model

### 1. Create a MATLAB training image 

This container is based on `mathworks/matlab-deps` with the following changes/additions:
1. Runs as root (as Amazon SageMaker requires this to have access to mounted volumes)
2. Install MATLAB, Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox, and Parallel Computing Toolbox.
3. Adds `matlab-batch` 
4. Adds MATLAB code from this repository that glues the Amazon SageMaker training environment to the user supplied MATLAB code.
5. Provides entrypoint that installs any other required products and then calls `matlab-batch` to run the training code.

To build and push the training image
````shell
cd docker
make build 
make test-local
make push
````

### 2. Do the training 

In MATLAB:
1. Create a `sagemaker.MATLABEstimator()` 
2. Upload training data to `s3`
3. Call `fit()`

#### What is this doing?
1. The `TrainingFunction` is [analysed](matlab.codetools.requiredFilesAndProducts) and a .mltbx file is [created](matlab.addons.toolbox.packageToolbox) containing the TrainingFunction and all files required to execute it.
2. This mltbx file is copied to s3 and it's location passed to the training job via the hyperparameters. 
3. Any additional products required are passed to the training image via the `MATLAB_REQUIRED_PRODUCTS` environment variable. 
4. SageMaker runs the training image with the `train` command
5. The training image installs any products specified by `MATLAB_REQUIRED_PRODUCTS` and then calls `matlab-batch train`
6. `train` is a function provided by this repo that installs the training job mltbx and executes the training function from that

## Deploying a model for inference

1. To deploy a model need to provide an `inference handler` that subclasses `sagemaker_inference.DefaultInferenceHandler`
2. When deploying a model the inference handler is compiled and packaged using Compiler SDK's [`compiler.package.microserviceDockerImage`](https://www.mathworks.com/help/compiler_sdk/mps_dev_test/compiler.package.microservicedockerimage.html) functionality. 
    * The Dockerfile generated by `compiler.package.microserviceDockerImage` is modified before building the image to meet SageMaker's requirements for an inference container.
4. The image is pushed to a Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR) registry 
5. an Amazon SageMaker endpoint is create that uses that container, and then predicton can be made against that endpoint just like any other Amazon SageMaker endpoint.

### Writing an inference handler
1. Create a new MATLAB class that inherits from `sagemaker_inference.DefaultInferenceHandler`
2. At a minimum add a `%#function` pragma to  this implementation to specify the MATLAB functions needed to evaluate the model types you want to support.
3. Override any of `decode_input`, `load_model`, `predict` or `encode_output` methods. 
  * `decode_input`: default implementation supports input data of type `text/csv` data and returns the data as a MATLAB `table`
  * `encode_output`: default implementation supports encodine a MATLAB table of output data with type `text/csv` 
  * `load_model`: default implementation loads a variable called `model` from a MAT file called `model.mat` from the SageMaker `model` folder (typically `/opt/ml/model)`)
  * `predict`: default implementation attempts to evaluate the loaded model `output = model(inputData)`.

Copyright 2023 The MathWorks, Inc.
